Thank you very much for coming. Thank you for this great speech. Thank you. Thank you everyone.
Thank you. Thank you.
Now, of course, again, now we continue with the teachings that we've been doing for the past, last
years.
Years of the teachings of Dzogchen and the following. The teachings of the according to the great
master in the yogi and the master of the
Shabkar Tsokdruk Rangdrol, and as well as the others too. We've come to put together, I try to put
together my letter of
clarifications so that we can easily, a little bit of understanding more to all of us. So that's
what we've been doing.
And this is the one that, again, bring to a moment in our life, truly, I believe, and we are having
a lot of talk about making and editing. You met all different editing and then come to here and
practice is really wonderful. We all have, you have,
particularly you all have busy lives and a too many things, too many different ways. And organizing
is really a lot of things and making that beautiful efforts.
And your commitment to come to this and the various practices and also kind of discovering or
little bit
activating, understanding, reminding of all the teachings you received from the many great masters
in the way. A little bit more additional clarification, or at least the
reminding of all the teachings and which is so wonderful, so beautiful. And as Buddha told in all
the great masters, so this is one of the beautiful moments.
And therefore again, always in the teachings, whether you're starting the teaching, whether you're
contemplating the teaching, whether you're meditating in the practice in the teaching,
always it is so important to correct our visual motivation. Generally, we all have a good
motivation, visual motivation. That's what we're here to get at.
And that motivation is a joy in appreciation in both each other and devotions, though. But however,
due to our all this emotion and negative forces of the habit dependence,
sometimes it blurs away all those things and then just kind of like continuing killing the mundane
conceptions of thought and really kind of very attracted with our, what's called this habit
dependence.
Therefore, always in the teaching, they said that correct the motivation. In every teaching, and
when we read the teaching, the living masters, when they read the teaching, they said, and also in
the teaching, when we read the books,
they said correct the motivation. That's so important. In the end, the Buddha's teaching is not
externally something we have to do too many things. The correct mind is so important. That's what
the Buddha said.
Just blend your own mind or subjugate only your mind. This is my teaching. That's what the teaching
said.
It's to discover, or kind of some new way of looking to the mind is so important. For that reason,
in the beginning, a joy in appreciation in both each other and understanding of the nature of the
old purity politics.
And we read of those old politics. This is not just a kind of like we're doing something extra
besides our practices. This is really practices.
And this is the one called accumulated merit. To merit. What's the merit? Accumulated merit. Joy in
appreciation in both each other.
And also, purely discovering, purely understanding all those are accumulated merit. Merit is so
important to actualize the realization.
So therefore, again, bring more joy, more appreciation. Appreciation is that we have those
beautiful opportunities. We are beautiful beings.
We have 18 endowments. Plus, we have more and more, 10 luxury qualities really we have. And above
that, we have all the perfect conditions to do practices.
That even those great masters at ancient times did not have what we have now. All the facilities
and supporters, the kind of community, that everything.
And many teachings often mentioned, we read the books and all that. Many great masters of the emer
itus practice on the caves.
In the moment, you see, it looks like a very kind of appealing, nice thing. But in reality, there
is no running water, no heated rooms on the caves.
And there is no, really, any kind of all the facilities just sitting in the caves and meditating in
practice.
Yet, for their joy and appreciation, courage and commitment, they never complained. They never
thought it was bad.
They're so happy and excited, the joy, really singing the songs of the joy and appreciation and the
devotions. That's the one.
We have more than that. Everything is organized. Everything is editing. Yet, every temperature,
everything is kind of like according to our desires.
We have all this, really. It's like, it comes from almost real land, I would say. When you're
thinking that, we should, really, this is very luxurious, very spacious.
So, for that, well, the midst of this luxurious college, and then put it, have some ability to kind
of have courage and commitment.
Use this our time as to practice it. And to activate it is so, so special and important.
Practice it means, you know, we're discovering the luxurious of the mind. Why? That, well, we take.
We will have that luxurious.
We will make ourselves happy and peaceful, joy. But when we leave this world, we will take that
with us.
This luxurious college, anything that we do not, with our mind, we're not going to leave behind.
Behind. We go with that. This is called interlocurious. Interlocurious, really.
Ex-interlocurious, whatever we have, whatever we use, it is beautiful. All the good purpose, all
that.
But, we leave behind. And that also becomes the legacy in the regions. And also a beneficial for
all the beings.
For something we develop with our mind, our nature of that, develop and discover our innate nature
of mind, we go with that.
That and a treasure is so special. So practice and meditation is to discover our treasures.
And this, so therefore, again, we promote joy and appreciation with that.
And then, always in the teaching said, is true in both each other.
And great master Kamala Shira is the reason, meditation, there's three stages of meditation that he
gives.
And the second stage is already translated.
He told that Dalai Lama is really gave that teaching so many times in Thailand.
Maybe, if you read that book, it's really very good. But if you didn't read that book, it's so
beautiful.
And the second meditation, Gomorrah Parpa in the communities.
And there, I mean, it's just Buddha teaching. Buddha teaching.
He's the Buddha, he recursively by the Kintasandev thing. And so Kamala Shira came, and he recurs
ively by the Kintasandev thing.
And all the students, he taught three famous teachings, particularly collected to the meditation.
And those are some of the big first meditation instruction, second meditation instruction, and
third meditation instruction.
Those are roughly trustworthy, but it's a really good translation.
I'm sure it's trustworthy, very perfectly, because his only Dalai Lama gave that teaching many
times.
So it's all in there.
He said, the enlightenment is not coming without any cause and conditions.
Enlightenment has to have cause and conditions.
That cause also has to be lined up with exactly enlightenment, not just any cause, any conditions.
So what is cause and condition of enlightenment?
And that is, he said, in the Great Master, the greatest teacher, Buddha said in the teaching,
that enlightenment, the root of enlightenment, is compassion.
And cause of enlightenment is bodhicam.
The condition of enlightenment is a skillful means of the six params of the practices.
Then, when we put together that, we really get enlightenment.
We have the perfect cause and the perfect conditions, and then get enlightenment.
So that's what the Great Master said that is.
Therefore, the compassion, the root of the compassion, is the root of enlightenment, the compassion
.
So root of the bodhicata is compassion.
And what did the teaching say there?
Bodhicata, of course, we talk a lot in the teaching, so many times,
but put down, break down to what is bodhicata, it's compassion.
Compassion for all living beings without any disconnections, without any partialities.
That genuine compassion arises from the heart.
Heart, that is the very, very cause of the enlightenment.
That is the very cause of zoki-realization.
Zoki-realization is the enlightenment.
Realization that we need to accommodate the merit, and we build up that realization.
So compassion is really in the teaching, so many times, it's so special and so powerful.
Also, why is it so special?
Because compassion is the very nature of our own mind.
Nature of our own mind, the Buddha-nature, Buddha Dattang Dattang Garbha, we've heard so many times
.
What is Dattang Dattang Garbha? Enlightenment nature.
That is compassion. That is wisdom.
United Compassion, wisdom, targeted, is Dattang Dattang Garbha.
That is inherent qualities to all the living beings.
Whatever we go through, different things, different karmas in our lives.
But that quality is never lost. Never go away. It's here.
We came with that, we stay with that, and we live this world with that nature.
For that reason, great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, said, and I said many times,
and our great teacher, K.G. Pali, also walking, said that,
whether Buddha came to this world, gave the teaching, that quality never improved.
Nothing improved.
And Buddha does not come to this world and does not give any teaching.
That does not disqualify anything.
Nature remains as it is.
But that remains as it is not enough for us.
We have to discover. We have to explore.
Why we need to explore? Because of due to the duality, due to the habit event,
that we find out and go over that as a thick cloth, thick cloth.
Life after life, life after life.
Our love, our compassion, our wisdom is very limited.
Why? This is governed by the habit event, dualities.
Otherwise, our love and compassion, our wisdom, is totally vastness,
vast and spacious as the sky.
For that reason, the great Master, the original, said,
when you break that, I mean, he used the example many of you know.
You know, if you put the example in the lamp,
the pole that has a lamp inside, so you don't see the light from the pole.
You see only the pole.
But if you make a hole to that pole, you see the light.
You see, if you put two holes, we will see two lights.
If we put three holes, we will see three lights.
And then he said, if you break that light,
book the verse, V-A-S-E verse,
that light completely expelled throughout the space,
or beyond the space.
That's the great teacher,
Buddha Chagamani and Gaurupayama Sammam.
That light is compassion.
That light is wisdom.
That is what that light is.
When we practice toga meditation,
zoki toga meditation,
that light, that is what we are exploring.
That's discovery.
That nature, realization on the regions of toga
is not just created by conception externally.
It's a rising quality of nature.
Deep is hiding behind the dualities.
In the teaching of ocean measurement, youthful ways, bodies.
What is youthful?
Youth, that means is never getting old or dead or in it,
always remain fresh, young, energetic and brilliant.
That is Buddha nature.
That is primordial wisdom, that which is inside it.
And then that youth is where?
It's vast, again, similar as Nagarjuna.
You use the example, vast, V-A-S-E, vast.
But when you break that through the checkness of the zoki meditations,
then we discover that the youthful freshness of the old in life ecologist.
So therefore, again, the bodhicata,
back to again, the bodhicata is always in the teaching sense,
that whatever you do, whether we are sitting,
whether we are walking, whether we are sleeping,
and we have the compassion and bodhicata taught in our heart and mind.
Now all, what the gracious teacher, Buddha, Shikham, said,
all the Buddha's teachings are came to your palms.
Everything is not far in the distance.
Everything really comes after all.
So this bodhicata and the compassion, the essence of the compassion,
is the essence of the bodhicata's compassion.
And bodhicata is more activated, that compassion.
And what in the teaching sense, by the compassion,
you are all projecting all the beings.
Where are we going to target that compassion?
To all the beings of the six realms, they all have troubles.
As long as we have the emotion, karma,
as long as we have the karma, that long we have troubles and difficulties.
Troubles, all the beings.
So compassion is projecting all the beings of six realms.
And our wisdom is projecting to get enlightenment, making more wise.
So in order to perform the reaches of the bodhicata, we need more wisdom.
Therefore, bodhicata is a union of the compassion and the wisdom together,
which is known as bodhicata.
And what sometimes in the teaching sense, the cause,
you are projecting by compassion all the beings,
which is a cause to get enlightenment.
And then, through the wisdom, you are projecting to the result of the enlightenment.
I'm going to get enlightenment, I get achievement and fulfillment,
and then I'm going to help to all the beings.
Not just only the reading for the anti-irritous enlightenment,
but that from now, according to our capabilities,
helping to support and treat the beings with the genuine, compared thought.
Thought, that is really known as bodhicata.
So even when we do practice meditation, whatever we do,
if we have always bodhicata thought, then I ask gracious teacher,
Buddha said, "All the teachings that came into your forms, not power."
And you're keeping, holding up so perfectly all the teachings.
Those are the teachings.
And with that understanding, and then, and the doki teaching.